ATPDocs/activities-filtering-mcas.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Defender for Identity activity filtering and policies in Microsoft Cloud App Security
description: Overview of Microsoft Defender for Identity activity filtering and policies with Microsoft Cloud App Security.
ms.date: 10/26/2020
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Use activity filters and create action policies with Microsoft Defender for Identity in Microsoft Cloud App Security

This article is designed to help you understand how to filter and create action policies for [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] activities using Microsoft Cloud App Security.

For more information about how to complete your integration, see [[!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] integration with Cloud App Security](/cloud-app-security/mdi-integration).

Core [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] functionality can be represented in the Microsoft Cloud App Security portal. This provides a singular administration experience around investigating risky users in your enterprise, and the ability to filter activity based on both on-premises and cloud identity events.

## Prerequisites

For complete user investigation features across the hybrid environment, you must have:

- A valid license for Microsoft Cloud App Security
- A valid license for [!INCLUDE [Product long](includes/product-long.md)] connected to your Active Directory instance

>[!NOTE]
>If you don't have a subscription for Cloud App Security, you can use the Cloud App Security portal to investigate [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] alerts and deep dive on users and their on-premise managed activities however insights related to your cloud applications will remain unavailable.

## Filter Defender for Identity activities in Cloud App Security

[!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] activities can be accessed from the main Cloud App Security **Investigate** menu by selecting the **Activity log** submenu, or from the **Alerts** menu by status, category, severity, application, user name, or policy.

To access [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] activities by user:

1. Filter the **Alerts** queue using the USER NAME field.
    ![Filter alerts by username.](media/mcas-alerts-queue.png)
1. Select the user name on any of the alerts in the resulting list to open the **User page** of the user you wish to investigate.

1. Filter activities of the user using the available fields, or add a new filter rule using the + button.
    ![Filter activities of the user.](media/mcas-activity-filter.png)

## Create activity policies in Cloud App Security

After filtering activities and identifying activity policies you'd like to implement, or noncompliance within your organization, use the **Create new activity policy** option from the filter menu to immediately create a new customized policy per user, device, or tenant.

To create a new activity policy:

1. From any **Activity log** page, apply a filter (such as APP, User Name, Activity type).
    - To filter to activities from [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] select the **Active Directory** option in the APP filter.
    ![Create new activity policy.](media/mcas-create-new-policy.png)
1. Select the **New policy from search** button.
1. Add a **Policy name**.
    ![Create new activity policy -step 2.](media/mcas-create-policy.png)
1. Add a policy **Description**.
1. Assign the **severity** of the policy.
1. Select a **category** for the policy.
1. Choose or modify filters to create and assign for the policy.
1. Refine or add more filters.
1. Save and apply the new policy.

## Next steps

Learn more about Investigation priority scoring and additional features of [Microsoft Cloud App Security](/cloud-app-security/) functionality.

## Join the Community

Do you have more questions, or an interest in discussing [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] and related security with others? Join the [[!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] Community](<https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Azure-Advanced-Threat-Protection/bd-p/AzureAdvancedThreatProtection>) today!

Commit message:

Replace Cloud App Security with Defender for Cloud Apps

ATPDocs/activities-filtering-mcas.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Defender for Identity activity filtering and policies in Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps
description: Overview of Microsoft Defender for Identity activity filtering and policies with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps.
ms.date: 10/26/2020
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Use activity filters and create action policies with Microsoft Defender for Identity in Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps

This article is designed to help you understand how to filter and create action policies for [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] activities using Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps.

For more information about how to complete your integration, see [[!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] integration with Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/mdi-integration).

Core [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] functionality can be represented in the Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps portal. This provides a singular administration experience around investigating risky users in your enterprise, and the ability to filter activity based on both on-premises and cloud identity events.

## Prerequisites

For complete user investigation features across the hybrid environment, you must have:

- A valid license for Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps
- A valid license for [!INCLUDE [Product long](includes/product-long.md)] connected to your Active Directory instance

>[!NOTE]
>If you don't have a subscription for Defender for Cloud Apps, you can use the Defender for Cloud Apps portal to investigate [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] alerts and deep dive on users and their on-premise managed activities however insights related to your cloud applications will remain unavailable.

## Filter Defender for Identity activities in Defender for Cloud Apps

[!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] activities can be accessed from the main Defender for Cloud Apps **Investigate** menu by selecting the **Activity log** submenu, or from the **Alerts** menu by status, category, severity, application, user name, or policy.

To access [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] activities by user:

1. Filter the **Alerts** queue using the USER NAME field.
    ![Filter alerts by username.](media/mcas-alerts-queue.png)
1. Select the user name on any of the alerts in the resulting list to open the **User page** of the user you wish to investigate.

1. Filter activities of the user using the available fields, or add a new filter rule using the + button.
    ![Filter activities of the user.](media/mcas-activity-filter.png)

## Create activity policies in Defender for Cloud Apps

After filtering activities and identifying activity policies you'd like to implement, or noncompliance within your organization, use the **Create new activity policy** option from the filter menu to immediately create a new customized policy per user, device, or tenant.

To create a new activity policy:

1. From any **Activity log** page, apply a filter (such as APP, User Name, Activity type).
    - To filter to activities from [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] select the **Active Directory** option in the APP filter.
    ![Create new activity policy.](media/mcas-create-new-policy.png)
1. Select the **New policy from search** button.
1. Add a **Policy name**.
    ![Create new activity policy -step 2.](media/mcas-create-policy.png)
1. Add a policy **Description**.
1. Assign the **severity** of the policy.
1. Select a **category** for the policy.
1. Choose or modify filters to create and assign for the policy.
1. Refine or add more filters.
1. Save and apply the new policy.

## Next steps

Learn more about Investigation priority scoring and additional features of [Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/) functionality.

## Join the Community

Do you have more questions, or an interest in discussing [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] and related security with others? Join the [[!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] Community](<https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Azure-Advanced-Threat-Protection/bd-p/AzureAdvancedThreatProtection>) today!
