---
title: Adjust alert thresholds | Microsoft Defender for Identity
description: Learn how to configure the number of Microsoft Defender for Identity alerts triggered of specific alert types by adjusting alert thresholds. ms.date: 02/11/2024
ms.topic: how-to
#CustomerIntent: As a Microsoft Defender for Identity customer, I want to reduce the number of false positives by adjusting thresholds for specific alerts.
---

# Adjust alert thresholds

This article describes how to configure the number of false positives by adjusting thresholds for specific Microsoft Defender for Identity alerts.

Some Defender for Identity alerts rely on *learning periods* to build a profile of patterns, and then distinguish between legitimate and suspicious activities. Each alert has specific conditions within the detection logic, such as alert thresholds and filtering for popular activities. Use the **Adjust alert thresholds** page to customize the threshold level for specific alerts to influence their alert volume.

For example, if you're running comprehensive testing, you might want to lower alert thresholds to trigger as many alerts as possible. On the other hand, if you're in a production environment, you might want to increase the threshold to a standard alert configuration to reduce the number of false positives.

## Prerequisites

To view the **Adjust alerts thresholds** page in Microsoft Defender XDR, you need access at least as a *Security viewer*.

To edit alert thresholds, you need access at least as a *Security administrator*.

## Define alert thresholds

1. In [Microsoft Defender XDR](https://security.microsoft.com), go to **Settings** > **Identities** > **Adjust alert thresholds**.

1. Locate the alert where you want to adjust the alert threshold, and the threshold level you want to apply.

    **High** is the default value, and applies standard thresholds to reduce false positives. **Medium** and **Low** thresholds increase the number of alerts generated by Defender for Identity.

    When you select **Medium** or **Low**, details are bolded in the **Information** column to help you understand how the change affects the alert behavior.

1. Select **Apply changes** to save changes.

## Switch to test mode

If you recently deployed Defender for Identity, select the **Recommended test mode** option to switch all alert thresholds to **Low** and increase the umber of alerts triggered. 

The **Recommended test mode** option is designed to help you understand all Defender for Identity alerts, including some related to legitimate traffic and activities so that you can thoroughly evaluate Defender for Identity as efficiently as possible.

Threshold levels are read-only when the **Recommended test mode** option is selected. When you're finished testing, toggle the **Recommended test mode** option back off to return to your previous settings. 

 

‘Revert to default’ button: 
If you revert to default, all alerts threshold level will be set back to their default levels (High threshold level), changes you made to threshold level will be lost. 
 
Note: 
Defender for Identity does not “forget” or delete the learning period in the environment, regardless if  “remove learning period” previous toggle was On or Off. In case the toggle is On, or alerts threshold level are set to Medium or Low, it will ignore the learning period and will be triggered immediately.  

 

What are the differences between the previous version feature to the new one?  
 

Old version 

New version 

‘Remove learning toggle’ enabled 

‘Recommended test mode’ toggle will be disabled, and the levels will remain the same as they were configured 

‘Remove learning toggle’ disabled 

‘Recommended test mode’ toggle will be disabled, and the levels will be reset to their default values (High threshold level). 

‘Remove learning toggle’ enabled for new workspace (less then 30 days) 

‘Recommended test mode’ toggle will be disabled, and the levels will be reset to their default values (High threshold level). An health alert won’t be triggered.  

 

Sensitivity level 

Threshold level 

Normal 

High 

Medium 

Medium 

High 

Low 

 

Any alerts that have a threshold level set to Medium or Low have an extra indication in the Important information section of the alert. 

To define alerts threshold level: 

In Microsoft Defender XDR, go to Settings > Identities  > Adjust alerts thresholds. 

Use the toggle to turn the Recommended test mode setting On or Off. 

If you want to modify the threshold for specific type of alerts, do not enable the toggle. 

Save your configuration by clicking on Apply changes. 

 

 Caution 

We recommend changing alert threshold only after careful consideration. For example, if you have NAT or VPN, we recommend that you do not set relevant detections to Low, including Suspected DCSync attack (replication of directory services) and Suspected identity theft detections. 

Supported alert types  

The following table lists the alert types that support adjusting threshold level and describes the effects of Medium and Low thresholds (Medium and High sensitivities).  

The 'High' level represents the default behavior, providing a standard alert configuration. 
Transitioning from 'High' to 'Medium' or 'Low' can increase alert volume. 

 

Detection 

Medium 

High 

Security principal reconnaissance (LDAP) 

On Medium mode, this detection triggers immediately and disables the filtering of popular queries in the environment. 

High mode includes everything in Medium mode, plus a lower threshold for queries, single scope enumeration, and more. 

Suspicious additions to sensitive groups 

Medium mode not supported for this detection. 

On Low mode, this detection avoids the sliding window and ignores any previous learnings. 

Suspected AD FS DKM key read 

Medium mode not supported for this detection. 

On Low mode, this detection triggers immediately. 

Suspected Brute Force attack (Kerberos, NTLM) 

On Medium mode, this detection ignores any learning done and has a lower threshold for failed passwords. 

On Low mode, this detection ignores any learning done and has the lowest possible threshold for failed passwords. 

Suspected DCSync attack (replication of directory services) 

On Medium mode, this detection triggers immediately. 

On Low mode, this detection triggers immediately and avoids IP filtering like NAT or VPN. 

Suspected Golden Ticket usage (forged authorization data) 

Medium mode not supported for this detection. 

On Low mode, this detection triggers immediately. 

Suspected Golden Ticket usage (encryption downgrade) 

Medium mode not supported for this detection. 

On Low mode, this detection triggers an alert based on lower confidence resolution of a device. 

Suspected identity theft (pass-the-ticket) 

Medium mode not supported for this detection. 

On Low mode, this detection triggers immediately and avoids IP filtering like NAT or VPN. 

User and Group membership reconnaissance (SAMR) 

On Medium mode, this detection triggers immediately. 

On Low mode, this detection triggers immediately and includes a lower alert threshold. 

For more information, see Security alerts in Microsoft Defender for Identity. 

Next step 

For more information, see Investigate Defender for Identity security alerts in Microsoft Defender XDR. 

 
 

 
## Switch to test mode

Some Defender for Identity alerts wait for a *learning period* before alerts are triggered. During this learning period, Defender for Identity builds a profile of patterns to use when distinguishing between legitimate and suspicious activities.

By default, after deploying your first sensor, new Defender for Identity workspaces are configured with a **Remove learning period** option set to *On*.

Setting the **Remove learning period** option to *On* causes Defender for Identity to trigger affected alerts even while your baseline is still being built. The default setting for new workspaces is designed to help you start evaluating Defender for Identity as soon and as thoroughly as possible.

However, the **Remove learning period** setting turned *On* can result in an immediate increase of the number of alerts, with some of them being legitimate traffic and activities. You might want to turn the **Remove learning period** setting *Off* manually, before the first 30 days are up, such as if you have a new workspace, but feel that Defender for Identity has learned your network sufficiently before the first 30 days are up.

Any alerts that are affected by the **Remove learning period** setting, and are triggered while the setting is set to *On*, have an extra indication in the **Important information** section of the alert.

If the **Remove learning period** setting is still *On* at the end of 30 days, Defender for Identity automatically turns it *Off* and opens a [health issue](health-alerts.md#the-remove-learning-period-toggle-was-automatically-switched-off-for-this-tenant) to notify administrators.

>[!NOTE]
> Turning *Off* the **Remove learning period** setting for workspaces that have already completed their learning period won't delete the learned profiles, but will ignore them for any alerts with sensitivity level *Medium* or *High*.

**To define learning period settings**:

1. In [Microsoft Defender XDR](https://security.microsoft.com), go to **Settings** > **Identities** > **Adjust alert thresholds**. 

1. Use the toggle to turn the **Remove learning period** setting *On* or *Off*.

1. If the **Remove learning period** setting is *On*, modify the sensitivity for each type of alert as needed for your organization.

    *Normal* means that the **Remove learning period** setting is turned *Off* for the selected type of alert. For more information, see [Supported alert types for learning periods](#supported-alert-types-for-learning-periods).

    > [!CAUTION]
    > We recommend changing alert sensitivity only after careful consideration. For example, if you have NAT or VPN, we recommend that you do not set relevant detections to *High*, including *Suspected DCSync attack (replication of directory services)* and  *Suspected identity theft* detections.
    >

## Supported alert types for learning periods

The following table lists the alert types that support learning periods and describes the effects of *Medium* and *High* sensitivities.  We recommend changing alert sensitivity only after careful consideration.

*Normal* means that the **Remove learning period** setting is turned *Off* for the selected type of alert. For more information, see [Supported alert types for learning periods](#supported-alert-types-for-learning-periods).


|Detection  |Medium  |High  |
|---------|---------|---------|
|**[Security principal reconnaissance (LDAP)](credential-access-alerts.md#security-principal-reconnaissance-ldap-external-id-2038)**     |    On *Medium* mode, this detection triggers immediately and disables the filtering of popular queries in the environment.         |   *High* mode includes everything in *Medium* mode, plus a lower threshold for queries, single scope enumeration, and more.     |
|**[Suspicious additions to sensitive groups](persistence-privilege-escalation-alerts.md#suspicious-additions-to-sensitive-groups-external-id-2024)**     |      *Medium* mode not supported for this detection.     |    On *High* mode, this detection avoids the sliding window and ignores any previous learnings.    |
|**[Suspected AD FS DKM key read](credential-access-alerts.md#suspected-ad-fs-dkm-key-read-external-id-2413)**     |    *Medium* mode not supported for this detection.        |   On *High* mode, this detection triggers immediately.      |
|**[Suspected Brute Force attack (Kerberos, NTLM)](credential-access-alerts.md#suspected-brute-force-attack-kerberos-ntlm-external-id-2023)**     |   On *Medium* mode, this detection ignores any learning done and has a lower threshold for failed passwords.           | On *High* mode, this detection ignores any learning done and has the lowest possible threshold for failed passwords.        |
|**[Suspected DCSync attack (replication of directory services)](credential-access-alerts.md#suspected-dcsync-attack-replication-of-directory-services-external-id-2006)**     |   On *Medium* mode, this detection triggers immediately.         | On *High* mode, this detection triggers immediately and avoids IP filtering like NAT or VPN.        |
|**[Suspected Golden Ticket usage (forged authorization data)](credential-access-alerts.md#suspected-golden-ticket-usage-forged-authorization-data-external-id-2013)**     |       *Medium* mode not supported for this detection.      |     On *High* mode, this detection triggers immediately.    |
|**[Suspected Golden Ticket usage (encryption downgrade)](persistence-privilege-escalation-alerts.md#suspected-golden-ticket-usage-encryption-downgrade-external-id-2009)**     |  *Medium* mode not supported for this detection.           |    On *High* mode, this detection triggers an alert based on lower confidence resolution of a device.     |
|**[Suspected identity theft (pass-the-ticket)](lateral-movement-alerts.md#suspected-identity-theft-pass-the-ticket-external-id-2018)**     |  On *Medium* mode, this detection triggers immediately.           |    On *High* mode, this detection triggers immediately and avoids IP filtering like NAT or VPN.      |
|**[User and Group membership reconnaissance (SAMR)](reconnaissance-discovery-alerts.md#user-and-group-membership-reconnaissance-samr-external-id-2021)**     |     On *Medium* mode, this detection triggers immediately.        |   On *High* mode, this detection triggers immediately and includes a lower alert threshold.  |

For more information, see [Security alerts in Microsoft Defender for Identity](alerts-overview.md).

## Next step

For more information, see [Investigate Defender for Identity security alerts in Microsoft Defender XDR](manage-security-alerts.md).
 
