ATPDocs/manage-action-accounts.md, before:

---
title: Manage action accounts
description: Learn how to manage action accounts to work with Microsoft Defender for Identity.
ms.date: 01/17/2022
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Microsoft Defender for Identity action accounts

Defender for Identity now allows you to create action accounts. These accounts are used to allow you to take actions on users directly from Defender for Identity.

We recommend you create the gMSA account Defender for Identity will use to take actions now, to benefit from the Actions features when they're available.

>[!NOTE]
> As those actions become available, we will announce them in the [What's new in Microsoft Defender for Identity](whats-new.md) page.

## Create and configure the action account

1. On a domain controller in your domain, create a new gMSA account, following the instructions in [Getting started with Group Managed Service Accounts](/windows-server/security/group-managed-service-accounts/getting-started-with-group-managed-service-accounts).

1. Grant the required permissions to the gMSA account.
    1. Open **Active Directory Users and Computers**.
    1. Right-click the relevant domain or OU, and select **Properties**.

        ![Select properties of domain or OU.](media/domain-properties.png)
    1. Go the **Security** tab and select **Advanced**.

        ![Advanced security settings.](media/advanced-security.png)

    1. Select **Add**.
    1. Choose **Select a principal**.
        ![Choose select a principal.](media/select-principal.png)
    1. Make sure **Service accounts** is marked in **Object types**.
        ![Select service accounts as object types.](media/object-types.png)
    1. Enter the name of the gMSA account in the **Enter the object name to select** box and select **OK**.
    1. Select **Descendant User objects** in the **Applies to** field and set the following permissions and properties:
        ![Set permissions and properties.](media/permission-entry.png)
        - To enable force password reset:
            - Permissions:
                - Reset password
            - Properties:
                - Read pwdLastSet
                - Write pwdLastSet
        - To disable user:
            - Properties:
                - Read userAccountControl
                - Write userAccountControl
    1. Select **Descendant Group objects** and choose the following permissions:
        - Permissions to remove user from a group:
            - Applies to Descendant Group object
            - Read members
            - Write members
    1. Select **OK**.

## Add the gMSA account in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal

1. Go to the [Microsoft 365 Defender portal](https://security.microsoft.com).
1. Go to **Settings** -> **Identities**.
1. Under **Microsoft Defender for Identity**, select **Manage action accounts**.
1. Select **+Create new account** to add your gMSA account.
1. Provide the account name and domain, and select **Save**.
1. Your action account will be listed on the **Manage action accounts** page.

      ![Create action account.](media/manage-action-accounts.png)

## See also

- [Connect to your Active Directory Forest](install-step2.md)
- [Microsoft Defender for Identity Directory Service Account recommendations](directory-service-accounts.md)

Commit message:

Update Manage Actions account page

ATPDocs/manage-action-accounts.md, after:

---
title: Manage action accounts
description: Learn how to manage action accounts to work with Microsoft Defender for Identity.
ms.date: 01/17/2022
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Microsoft Defender for Identity action accounts

Defender for Identity now allows you to create action accounts. These accounts are used to allow you to take actions on users directly from Defender for Identity.

We recommend you create the gMSA account Defender for Identity will use to take actions now, to benefit from the Actions features when they're available.

>[!NOTE]
> As those actions become available, we will announce them in the [What's new in Microsoft Defender for Identity](whats-new.md) page.

## Create and configure the action account

1. On a domain controller in your domain, create a new gMSA account, following the instructions in [Getting started with Group Managed Service Accounts](/windows-server/security/group-managed-service-accounts/getting-started-with-group-managed-service-accounts).

1. Grant the required permissions to the gMSA account.
    1. Open **Active Directory Users and Computers**.
    1. Right-click the relevant domain or OU, and select **Properties**.

        ![Select properties of domain or OU.](media/domain-properties.png)
    1. Go the **Security** tab and select **Advanced**.

        ![Advanced security settings.](media/advanced-security.png)

    1. Select **Add**.
    1. Choose **Select a principal**.
        ![Choose select a principal.](media/select-principal.png)
    1. Make sure **Service accounts** is marked in **Object types**.
        ![Select service accounts as object types.](media/object-types.png)
    1. Enter the name of the gMSA account in the **Enter the object name to select** box and select **OK**.
    1. Select **Descendant User objects** in the **Applies to** field and set the following permissions and properties:
        ![Set permissions and properties.](media/permission-entry.png)
        - To enable force password reset:
            - Permissions:
                - Reset password
            - Properties:
                - Read pwdLastSet
                - Write pwdLastSet
        - To disable user:
            - Properties:
                - Read userAccountControl
                - Write userAccountControl
    1. Select **Descendant Group objects** in the **Applies to** field and set the following properties:

        - Read members
        - Write members
    1. Select **OK**.

> [!NOTE]
> It's recommended to not use the same gMSA account you configured for Defender for Identity managed actions on servers other than domain controllers. If the server is compromised, an attacker could retrieve the password for the account and gain the ability to change passwords and disable accounts.

## Add the gMSA account in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal

1. Go to the [Microsoft 365 Defender portal](https://security.microsoft.com).
1. Go to **Settings** -> **Identities**.
1. Under **Microsoft Defender for Identity**, select **Manage action accounts**.
1. Select **+Create new account** to add your gMSA account.
1. Provide the account name and domain, and select **Save**.
1. Your action account will be listed on the **Manage action accounts** page.

      ![Create action account.](media/manage-action-accounts.png)

## Next steps

- [Directory Service Account recommendations](directory-service-accounts.md)
- [Troubleshooting gMSA account issues](troubleshooting-known-issues.md#sensor-failed-to-retrieve-group-managed-service-account-gmsa-credentials)
