ATPDocs/us-govt-gcc-high.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Defender for Identity for US Government offerings
description: This article provides an overview of Microsoft Defender for Identity's US Government offerings.
ms.date: 12/09/2021
ms.topic: overview
---

# Microsoft Defender for Identity for US Government offerings

The [!INCLUDE [Product long](includes/product-long.md)] GCC High offering uses the same underlying technologies and capabilities as the commercial instance of [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)]. A list of feature variances can be found in the [Service Description](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-azure-atp-govt-service-description).

## Get started with US Government offerings

The [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] GCC, GCC High, and Department of Defense (DoD) offerings are built on the Microsoft Azure Government Cloud and are designed to inter-operate with Microsoft 365 GCC, GCC High, and DoD. Use [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] public documentation as a [starting point](install-step1.md) for deploying and operating the service and refer to the [Service Description](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-mdi-govt-service-description), which details all changes from functionality or features specific to the GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments.

## Licensing requirements

Defender for Identity for US Government customers requires one of the following Microsoft volume licensing offers:

| **GCC**                                   | **GCC High**                              | **DoD**                                   |
| ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Microsoft 365 GCC G5                      | Microsoft 365 E5 for GCC High             | Microsoft 365 G5 for DOD                  |
| Microsoft 365 G5 Security GCC             | Microsoft 365 G5 Security for GCC High    | Microsoft 365 G5 Security for DOD         |
| Standalone Defender for Identity licenses | Standalone Defender for Identity licenses | Standalone Defender for Identity licenses |

## URLs

To access Microsoft Defender for Identity for US Government offerings, use the appropriate addresses in this table:

|US Government offering  |Portal  |Workspace |Agent endpoint  |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|
|DoD    |   `portal.azure.atp.us`      | `<workspacename>.atp.azure.us` |  `<your-instance-name>sensorapi.atp.azure.us`       |
|GCC-H   |  `portal.azure.atp.us`       | `<workspacename>.atp.azure.us`    |  `<your-instance-name>sensorapi.atp.azure.us`       |
|GCC     |     `portal.gcc.atp.azure.com`    | `<workspacename>.gcc.atp.azure.com` |     `<your-instance-name>sensorapi.gcc.atp.azure.com`    |

You can also use the IP address ranges in our Azure service tag (**AzureAdvancedThreatProtection**) to enable access to Defender for Identity. For more information about service tags, see [Virtual network service tags](/azure/virtual-network/service-tags-overview) or download [the Azure IP Ranges and Service Tags – US Government Cloud file](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=57063).

## Required connectivity settings

Use [this link](prerequisites.md#ports) to configure the minimum internal ports necessary that the Defender for Identity sensor requires.

## Feature parity with the commercial environment

Unless otherwise specified, new feature releases, including preview features, documented in [What's new with Defender for Identity](whats-new.md), will be available in GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments within three weeks of release in the Defender for Identity commercial environment. Preview features may not be supported in the GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments. Refer to the [Service Description](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-mdi-govt-service-description) for a list of functionality or features specific to the GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments.

## Next steps

- [Learn more about Government offerings](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-azure-atp-govt-service-description)
- [Check out the [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] forum!](<https://aka.ms/MDIcommunity>)

Commit message:

Adding commercial to GCC migration steps

ATPDocs/us-govt-gcc-high.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Defender for Identity for US Government offerings
description: This article provides an overview of Microsoft Defender for Identity's US Government offerings.
ms.date: 12/09/2021
ms.topic: overview
---

# Microsoft Defender for Identity for US Government offerings

The [!INCLUDE [Product long](includes/product-long.md)] GCC High offering uses the same underlying technologies and capabilities as the commercial instance of [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)]. A list of feature variances can be found in the [Service Description](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-azure-atp-govt-service-description).

## Get started with US Government offerings

The [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] GCC, GCC High, and Department of Defense (DoD) offerings are built on the Microsoft Azure Government Cloud and are designed to inter-operate with Microsoft 365 GCC, GCC High, and DoD. Use [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] public documentation as a [starting point](install-step1.md) for deploying and operating the service and refer to the [Service Description](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-mdi-govt-service-description), which details all changes from functionality or features specific to the GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments.

## Licensing requirements

Defender for Identity for US Government customers requires one of the following Microsoft volume licensing offers:

| **GCC**                                   | **GCC High**                              | **DoD**                                   |
| ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Microsoft 365 GCC G5                      | Microsoft 365 E5 for GCC High             | Microsoft 365 G5 for DOD                  |
| Microsoft 365 G5 Security GCC             | Microsoft 365 G5 Security for GCC High    | Microsoft 365 G5 Security for DOD         |
| Standalone Defender for Identity licenses | Standalone Defender for Identity licenses | Standalone Defender for Identity licenses |

## URLs

To access Microsoft Defender for Identity for US Government offerings, use the appropriate addresses in this table:

|US Government offering  |Portal  |Workspace |Agent endpoint  |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|
|DoD    |   `portal.azure.atp.us`      | `<workspacename>.atp.azure.us` |  `<your-instance-name>sensorapi.atp.azure.us`       |
|GCC-H   |  `portal.azure.atp.us`       | `<workspacename>.atp.azure.us`    |  `<your-instance-name>sensorapi.atp.azure.us`       |
|GCC     |     `portal.gcc.atp.azure.com`    | `<workspacename>.gcc.atp.azure.com` |     `<your-instance-name>sensorapi.gcc.atp.azure.com`    |

You can also use the IP address ranges in our Azure service tag (**AzureAdvancedThreatProtection**) to enable access to Defender for Identity. For more information about service tags, see [Virtual network service tags](/azure/virtual-network/service-tags-overview) or download [the Azure IP Ranges and Service Tags – US Government Cloud file](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=57063).

## Required connectivity settings

Use [this link](prerequisites.md#ports) to configure the minimum internal ports necessary that the Defender for Identity sensor requires.

## How to migrate Defender for Identity from commercial to GCC

1. Send the tenant details to [AskGCC@microsoft.com](mailto:AskGCC@microsoft.com)
1. Go to the GCC portal for Defender for Identity: `https://portal.gcc.atp.azure.com`
1. Create a new instance of Defender for Identity
1. Download the new sensor agent package and copy the workspace key
1. Uninstall existing sensor agents from the domain controllers
1. Make sure sensors have access to `*.gcc.atp.azure.com` (directly or through proxy)
1. Reinstall sensors with the new workspace key
1. Migrate any settings after the initial sync (use the portals to compare)
1. Eventually, delete the previous workspace (historic data will be lost)

>[!NOTE]
> No data is migrated from the commercial service.

## Feature parity with the commercial environment

Unless otherwise specified, new feature releases, including preview features, documented in [What's new with Defender for Identity](whats-new.md), will be available in GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments within three weeks of release in the Defender for Identity commercial environment. Preview features may not be supported in the GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments. Refer to the [Service Description](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-mdi-govt-service-description) for a list of functionality or features specific to the GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments.

## Next steps

- [Learn more about Government offerings](/enterprise-mobility-security/solutions/ems-azure-atp-govt-service-description)
- [Check out the [!INCLUDE [Product short](includes/product-short.md)] forum!](<https://aka.ms/MDIcommunity>)
